# C1
## a
Node A would listen to the medium and if idle send its frame. Then waiting for the ACK.

## b
D will send first. B & C will be waiting their time units.

## c
They are both going to try to send, detect collision, and backoff for a DIFS and a random number of time units. The new size of the contention window is $2 \cdot (31 + 1)  - 1 = 2 \cdot 32 - 1 = 63$

# C2
RTS + CTS = 34 bytes

## a
$$\frac{40}{40 + 34} \approx 54 \%$$
## b
$$\frac{576}{576 + 34} \approx 94 \%$$
## c
$$\frac{1500}{1500 + 34} \approx 98 \%$$

# C3
No because B must wait a DIFS before sending, the access point waits for only a SIFS.

# C4
$E \leftrightarrow D$
$D \leftrightarrow C$

# H1
## a
Attinuation, due to omnidirectional antenna

!!! Noise, ISM microwave oven

## b
To be backwards compatible with older standards

!!! adapt to link quality

## c
To make sure that the data is encoded and decoded correctly. They involve a preamble.

!!! frame delimiter control fields

# d
A hidden node is a node that cannot hear the transmissions of another node on the same network. This results in the possibility of to nodes trying to send at the same time, coliding at the reciver, but not knowing that they did. This is hadled with CSMA/CA.

!!! False, handled by RTS/CTS

# e
- Backoff
- Choose a random number between 0 and CW
- wait for a DIFS
- while medium is idle decreas counter each time unit
- when counter is 0 send frame
- wait for ACK
- If collision again random to 2x CW

# H2
## a
The Aloha protocol used random wait times to readuce risk of collisions.

!!! Stop and wait, shared uplink dedicated downlink ACK not collision
# b
By constatly listening to the medium and only sending when the medium is idle you reduce the risk of collision while maitaing utilization.
# c
It was done to reduce the time before a collision ocurs and it being detected.
# d
Because of the high atenuation of the signal (the coliding signal being drowned out by the sending signal), and it not working on hidden terminals.
# e
If sensing medium and it is idle, send, otherwise wait for a DIFS and a random number of time units up to the CW. Only decrease the time units while the medium is idle. When time units are at 0, send.
## f
Because the band is unlisensed becaus machines produce EM noise in that range. Frame errors are handled with ARQ. RTS/CTS will not help, because it is not other nodes that are coliding but non-network equipment.